README.md, before:

A list of resources to think about free software and open source
current challenges.  A work in progress.  Contributions are welcome!


# Burn out


## Talks

-   [The Hard Parts of Open Source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o_4EX4dPppA) by Evan Czaplicki
-   [Open Source & Feelings 2015 - What Part of "&#x2026; for Life" Don't You
    Understand?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EqcuzSwySR4) by Jacob Kaplan-Moss
-   [Avoiding Burnout, and other essentials of Open Source Self-Care](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RbeHBnWfXUc) by Kathleen Danielson


## Blog posts, articles and tweets

-   [The struggles of an open source maintainer](http://antirez.com/news/129) by <http://antirez.com>
-   [The Linux Mint Blog - Monthly News – March 2019](https://blog.linuxmint.com/?p=3736) (and in
    [betanews.com](https://betanews.com/2019/04/01/linux-mint-depressed/))
-   [Give Away Your Code, But Never Your Time](http://wgross.net/essays/give-away-your-code-but-never-your-time) by William Gross
-   [Why open source developers are burning out: No respect](https://www.techrepublic.com/article/why-open-source-developers-are-burning-out-no-respect/)
-   [On Being a Free Software Maintainer](https://feaneron.com/2019/03/28/on-being-a-free-software-maintainer/) by Georges Stavracas
-   [5 rules for avoiding burnout](https://opensource.com/business/16/5/5-rules-avoiding-burnout) by Jen Krieger
-   [GitHub is really good at visualizing burnout](https://twitter.com/destroytoday/status/1180961725933338624)
-   [May the source be with EU](https://twitter.com/s_bergmann/status/1180801252957011968)


# Business models

-   [The Simple Economics of Open Source](https://www.nber.org/papers/w7600) (www.nber.org, Josh Lerner, Jean
    Tirole, 2000)
-   [The Economics of Software](http://dtrace.org/blogs/bmc/2004/08/28/the-economics-of-software/) (Bryan Cantrill, August 2004)
-   [FLOSS business models](https://sfosc.org/business-models/) (Sustainable Free and Open Source
    Community, 2018)
-   [Making money with licenses](https://nadiaeghbal.com/licenses) (Nadia Eghbal, March 2019)
-   [Building a Business on Open Source](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-management/2017/06/building-a-business-on-open-source/) (www.linuxfoundation.org, July 2017)
-   [Open Source Business Models Redux](https://www.slideshare.net/stephenrwalli/there-is-no-open-source-business-model-78575010) (Stephen Walli, 2017)
-   [Building an Open Source Service](https://blog.sentry.io/2016/10/24/building-an-open-source-service.html) (David Cramer, blog.sentry.io, October 2016)
-   [AWS, MongoDB, and the Economic Realities of Open Source](https://stratechery.com/2019/aws-mongodb-and-the-economic-realities-of-open-source/) (Ben
    Thompson, stratechery.com, January 2019)
-   [Open Source Confronts Its Midlife Crisis](http://dtrace.org/blogs/bmc/2018/12/14/open-source-confronts-its-midlife-crisis/) (Bryan Cantrill, December 2018)
-   [A EULA in FOSS clothing?](http://dtrace.org/blogs/bmc/2018/12/16/a-eula-in-foss-clothing/) (Bryan Cantrill, December 2018)
-   [An alternate ending to the tragedy of the commons](https://medium.com/@nayafia/an-alternate-ending-to-the-tragedy-of-the-commons-446b4e960887) (Nadia Eghbal, May 2018)
-   [Microsoft: 'We Love Open Source'](https://www.pcworld.com/article/203923/microsoft_we_love_open_source.html) (www.pcworld.com August 2010)
-   [Defining "sustainable" for an open-source project](https://lwn.net/Articles/783169/)
-   [FOSDEM 2019 and the challenge to finance Open Source](https://blog.ludovic.org/xwiki/bin/view/Blog/FOSDEM2019%20and%20the%20challenge%20to%20finance%20Open%20Source)
-   [Sustaining FOSS projects by democratizing the sponsorship process](https://changelog.com/news/sustaining-foss-projects-by-democratizing-the-sponsorship-process-Zqr2) by adamstac, 2019


# Sustainability


## Posts and articles

-   [The Internet Was Built on the Free Labor of Open Source
    Developers. Is That Sustainable?](https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/article/43zak3/the-internet-was-built-on-the-free-labor-of-open-source-developers-is-that-sustainable) by Daniel Oberhaus, 2019
-   [Defining "sustainable" for an open-source project](https://lwn.net/Articles/783169/) by Jake Edge
-   [Let’s talk about open source sustainability](https://github.blog/2019-01-17-lets-talk-about-open-source-sustainability/) by Devon Zuegel, 2019
-   <https://dieworkwear.com/post/182126040434/how-we-lost-our-ability-to-mend>
-   [How to support open-source software and stay sane](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-019-02046-0) by Anna
    Nowogrodzki, 2019
-   [Load-Bearing Internet People](http://esr.ibiblio.org/?p=8383) by ESR, 2019
-   [Software below the poverty line](https://staltz.com/software-below-the-poverty-line.html) by André Staltz, 2019
-   [Decentralized funding? An analysis of three programs](https://nadiaeghbal.com/grant-programs) by Nadia
    Eghbal, 2018
-   [$1m to pay open source maintainers on Tidelift](https://blog.tidelift.com/1m-to-pay-open-source-maintainers-on-tidelift) by Donald Fischer, 2018
-   [Creating a New Source of Revenue for Open Source Software](https://triplebyte.com/blog/creating-a-new-source-of-revenue-for-open-source-software) by
    Guillaume Luccisano, 2018
-   [Heart of Clojure 2019 - Daniel Compton - Building Stable Foundations](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z_q6nVeD_K4&feature=youtu.be&list=PLhYmIiHOMWoEgJEvgkmUe8D0agxy_T2vR)
-   [Altruism Still Fuels the Web. Businesses Love to Exploit It](https://www.wired.com/story/altruism-open-source-fuels-web-businesses-love-to-exploit-it/) by
    Zeynep Tufekci, 2019


## Conferences, groups, initiatives

-   <https://sustainoss.org>
-   <http://themaintainers.org>
-   <https://maintainerati.org>
-   <https://www.outreachy.org>
-   <https://www.legacycode.rocks>
-   <https://prototypefund.de>
-   <https://www.piratecare.net/posts/call-for-papers/>
-   [fundthecode.org: events to finance FLOSS projects](https://fundthecode.org)
-   <https://github.com/sponsors> (and the [FAQ](https://github.blog/2019-06-12-faq-with-the-github-sponsors-team))
-   <https://www.maintainersanonymous.com/>
-   <https://nadiaeghbal.com/microgrants>
-   [Linux Foundation Core Infrastructure Project](https://www.coreinfrastructure.org/)
-   [Help Sustain Open Source Communities](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/press-release/2019/03/the-linux-foundation-launches-new-communitybridge-platform-to-help-sustain-open-source-communities/) by the Linux Foundation


## Generalist websites

-   [oss.fund: Open Source Software Funding Platforms Registry](https://oss.fund) (discussed
    on [discourse.sustainoss.org](https://discourse.sustainoss.org/t/open-source-software-funding-platforms-registry/106))
-   [Sustainable Free and Open Source Communities](https://sfosc.org)
-   [No Maintenance Intended](http://unmaintained.tech)


# Infrastructure

-   Russell and Vinsel, "Making Maintainers: Engineering Education and
    the Ethics of Care" [preprint](http://themaintainers.org/resources).
-   [Roads and Bridges: The Unseen Labor Behind Our Digital
    Infrastructure](https://www.fordfoundation.org/about/library/reports-and-studies/roads-and-bridges-the-unseen-labor-behind-our-digital-infrastructure) by Nadia Eghbal, 2016
-   [Exploiting Developer Infrastructure Is Ridiculously Easy](https://medium.com/s/story/exploiting-developer-infrastructure-is-insanely-easy-9849937e81d4) by Jarrod
    Overson, 2018
-   [Every day, we rely on digital infrastructure built by volunteers. What happens when it fails?](https://www.fordfoundation.org/ideas/equals-change-blog/posts/every-day-we-rely-on-digital-infrastructure-built-by-volunteers-what-happens-when-it-fails/)


# Ethics and motivation

-   [Blood money is fine with us, says GitLab](https://www.theregister.co.uk/2019/10/16/gitlab_employees_gagged/), 2019
-   [6 myths about “ethical” open source licenses](https://hackernoon.com/6-myths-about-ethical-open-source-licenses-3bfbd042b1dc), 2019
-   [Why we need an Open Source Licence that considers the misuse of our code](https://hackernoon.com/why-we-need-an-open-source-licence-that-considers-the-misuse-of-our-code-8d19b65d425), 2019
-   [Major Open Source Project Revokes Access to Companies That Work with
    ICE](https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/article/8xbynx/major-open-source-project-revokes-access-to-companies-that-work-with-ice) by Daniel Oberhaus, 2018
-   <https://words.steveklabnik.com/what-comes-after-open-source> by Steve
    Klabnik, 2018
-   [Why We Engage in FLOSS: Answers from Core Developers](https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.05741)
-   [Of Money, Responsibility, and Pride](http://veridicalsystems.com/blog/of-money-responsibility-and-pride/) by Steve Marquess
-   [Why Software Projects need Heroes (Lessons Learned from 1100+ Projects)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.09954)
-   [What Core Contributors Want](https://medium.com/open-collective/what-core-contributors-want-4e7327ac9180) by Alanna Irving, 2019
-   [Why don't you accept donations?](https://github.com/gorhill/uBlock/wiki/Why-don't-you-accept-donations%3F) by Raymond Hill, 2015
-   <https://github.com/tootsuite/mastodon/issues/11129>
-   [Software Community Growth through "first-timers-only" issues](https://publiclab.org/notes/gauravano/03-29-2019/software-community-growth-through-first-timers-only-issues) by
    gauravano with warren, 2019 (also see [firsttimersonly.com](https://www.firsttimersonly.com))
-   [Finding your tribe - choosing open source communities](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qTdJgpxkrhU)


# Related essays

-   [The culture war at the heart of open source](https://words.steveklabnik.com/the-culture-war-at-the-heart-of-open-source) and [What comes after open source?](https://words.steveklabnik.com/what-comes-after-open-source)
-   [The Origins of Opera and the Future of Programming](https://the-composition.com/the-origins-of-opera-and-the-future-of-programming-bcdaf8fbe960) by Jessica Kerr, 2018
-   [The Principal Developer](https://sizovs.net/2019/02/15/the-principal-developer) by Eduards Sizovs, 2019 ([HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=19192737))
-   ['Human-Computer Insurrection' (PDF)](https://ironholds.org/resources/papers/anarchist_hci.pdf)
-   [Shop Class as Soulcraft: An Inquiry Into the Value of Work (The Penguin Press, 2009)](http://www.matthewbcrawford.com/new-page-1-1-2)
-   <https://media.libreplanet.org/u/libreplanet/m/right-to-repair-and-the-dmca/>


# Miscellaneous

-   [Recap of the \`funding\` experiment](https://feross.org/funding-experiment-recap/) by Feross Aboukhadijeh, 2019
-   [But You Said I Could](https://blog.licensezero.com/2019/08/26/but-you-said.html) by licensezero, 2019
-   <https://www.techrepublic.com/article/why-doesnt-anyone-weep-for-docker/>
-   <https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/episode-24-chat-about-redis-labs-podcast-transcript>
-   <https://armin.dev/blog/2019/08/supporting-browser-extension-developers/> (and [HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=20587440))
-   <https://discourse.sustainoss.org/t/next-steps-for-the-working-group/23> (see [ossgrants](https://erlend-sh.github.io/ossgrants/))
-   <https://twitter.com/pradyunsg/status/1146454278174756864>
-   <https://twitter.com/ceejbot/status/1135125056487485440>
-   <https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/11/magazine/letter-of-recommendation-bug-fixes-git.html>
-   <https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/oss-relicensing-cockroachdb/> (on [HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=20097077) and [theinformation.com](https://www.theinformation.com/articles/cockroach-labs-stands-up-to-amazons-open-source-offensive?))
-   <https://increment.com/open-source/the-rise-of-few-maintainer-projects/>
-   <https://utcc.utoronto.ca/~cks/space/blog/programming/GoIsGooglesLanguage>
-   Python request episode : on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/dhh/status/1125184022311854085), [vorpus.org](https://vorpus.org/blog/why-im-not-collaborating-with-kenneth-reitz/) and [journal.kennethreitz.org](http://journal.kennethreitz.org/entry/conspiracy)
-   <https://blog.ubuntu.com/2019/04/29/canonical-consolidates-open-infrastructure-support-and-security-offerings>
-   <https://changelog.com/podcast/233> about Webpack
-   <https://www.legacycode.rocks/podcast-1/episode/1c0e0b87/hail-the-maintainers-with-andrew-russell>
-   <https://aws.amazon.com/fr/blogs/opensource/keeping-open-source-open-open-distro-for-elasticsearch/>
-   <https://waypoint.vice.com/en_us/article/8xypb5/the-dwarf-fortress-creators-werent-in-it-for-money-but-now-they-need-it>
-   [Stepping stone history of FOSS assumptions, ethics, personalities & economics](https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/43zak3/the-internet-was-built-on-the-free-labor-of-open-source-developers-is-that-sustainable)
-   [A Seasonal Report on Developer Trends in the Cloud: Open Source Edition](https://www.digitalocean.com/currents/october-2018/)
-   Strange Loop - A Stitch in Time - The future of OSS Sustainability September 12-14 in St. Louis, Missouri, USA

Commit message:

Add techcrunch.com article about Xs:code

README.md, after:

A list of resources to think about free software and open source
current challenges.  A work in progress.  Contributions are welcome!


# Burn out


## Talks

-   [The Hard Parts of Open Source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o_4EX4dPppA) by Evan Czaplicki
-   [Open Source & Feelings 2015 - What Part of "&#x2026; for Life" Don't You
    Understand?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EqcuzSwySR4) by Jacob Kaplan-Moss
-   [Avoiding Burnout, and other essentials of Open Source Self-Care](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RbeHBnWfXUc) by Kathleen Danielson


## Blog posts, articles and tweets

-   [The struggles of an open source maintainer](http://antirez.com/news/129) by <http://antirez.com>
-   [The Linux Mint Blog - Monthly News – March 2019](https://blog.linuxmint.com/?p=3736) (and in
    [betanews.com](https://betanews.com/2019/04/01/linux-mint-depressed/))
-   [Give Away Your Code, But Never Your Time](http://wgross.net/essays/give-away-your-code-but-never-your-time) by William Gross
-   [Why open source developers are burning out: No respect](https://www.techrepublic.com/article/why-open-source-developers-are-burning-out-no-respect/)
-   [On Being a Free Software Maintainer](https://feaneron.com/2019/03/28/on-being-a-free-software-maintainer/) by Georges Stavracas
-   [5 rules for avoiding burnout](https://opensource.com/business/16/5/5-rules-avoiding-burnout) by Jen Krieger
-   [GitHub is really good at visualizing burnout](https://twitter.com/destroytoday/status/1180961725933338624)
-   [May the source be with EU](https://twitter.com/s_bergmann/status/1180801252957011968)


# Business models

-   [Xs:code launches subscription platform to monetize open-source
    projects](https://techcrunch.com/2019/12/10/xscode-launches-subscription-platform-to-monetize-open-source-projects/) (Dec. 2019)
-   [Re-Licensing Sentry](https://blog.sentry.io/2019/11/06/relicensing-sentry) (Nov. 2019)
-   [The Simple Economics of Open Source](https://www.nber.org/papers/w7600) (www.nber.org, Josh Lerner, Jean
    Tirole, 2000)
-   [The Economics of Software](http://dtrace.org/blogs/bmc/2004/08/28/the-economics-of-software/) (Bryan Cantrill, August 2004)
-   [FLOSS business models](https://sfosc.org/business-models/) (Sustainable Free and Open Source
    Community, 2018)
-   [Making money with licenses](https://nadiaeghbal.com/licenses) (Nadia Eghbal, March 2019)
-   [Building a Business on Open Source](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-management/2017/06/building-a-business-on-open-source/) (www.linuxfoundation.org, July 2017)
-   [Open Source Business Models Redux](https://www.slideshare.net/stephenrwalli/there-is-no-open-source-business-model-78575010) (Stephen Walli, 2017)
-   [Building an Open Source Service](https://blog.sentry.io/2016/10/24/building-an-open-source-service.html) (David Cramer, blog.sentry.io, October 2016)
-   [AWS, MongoDB, and the Economic Realities of Open Source](https://stratechery.com/2019/aws-mongodb-and-the-economic-realities-of-open-source/) (Ben
    Thompson, stratechery.com, January 2019)
-   [Open Source Confronts Its Midlife Crisis](http://dtrace.org/blogs/bmc/2018/12/14/open-source-confronts-its-midlife-crisis/) (Bryan Cantrill, December 2018)
-   [A EULA in FOSS clothing?](http://dtrace.org/blogs/bmc/2018/12/16/a-eula-in-foss-clothing/) (Bryan Cantrill, December 2018)
-   [An alternate ending to the tragedy of the commons](https://medium.com/@nayafia/an-alternate-ending-to-the-tragedy-of-the-commons-446b4e960887) (Nadia Eghbal, May 2018)
-   [Microsoft: 'We Love Open Source'](https://www.pcworld.com/article/203923/microsoft_we_love_open_source.html) (www.pcworld.com August 2010)
-   [Defining "sustainable" for an open-source project](https://lwn.net/Articles/783169/)
-   [FOSDEM 2019 and the challenge to finance Open Source](https://blog.ludovic.org/xwiki/bin/view/Blog/FOSDEM2019%20and%20the%20challenge%20to%20finance%20Open%20Source)
-   [Sustaining FOSS projects by democratizing the sponsorship process](https://changelog.com/news/sustaining-foss-projects-by-democratizing-the-sponsorship-process-Zqr2) by adamstac, 2019


# Sustainability


## Posts and articles

-   [Theory: average bus factor = 1](https://anarc.at/blog/2019-10-16-bus-factor/) by anarcat, Nov. 2019
-   [The Internet Relies on People Working for Free](https://onezero.medium.com/the-internet-relies-on-people-working-for-free-a79104a68bcc) by Owen Williams, Sept. 2019
-   [The Internet Was Built on the Free Labor of Open Source
    Developers. Is That Sustainable?](https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/article/43zak3/the-internet-was-built-on-the-free-labor-of-open-source-developers-is-that-sustainable) by Daniel Oberhaus, 2019
-   [Defining "sustainable" for an open-source project](https://lwn.net/Articles/783169/) by Jake Edge
-   [Let’s talk about open source sustainability](https://github.blog/2019-01-17-lets-talk-about-open-source-sustainability/) by Devon Zuegel, 2019
-   <https://dieworkwear.com/post/182126040434/how-we-lost-our-ability-to-mend>
-   [How to support open-source software and stay sane](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-019-02046-0) by Anna Nowogrodzki, 2019
-   [Load-Bearing Internet People](http://esr.ibiblio.org/?p=8383) by ESR, 2019
-   [Software below the poverty line](https://staltz.com/software-below-the-poverty-line.html) by André Staltz, 2019
-   [We need Sustainable Free and Open Source Communities](https://medium.com/sustainable-free-and-open-source-communities/we-need-sustainable-free-and-open-source-communities-edf92723d619) by Adam Jacob, Dec. 2018
-   [Decentralized funding? An analysis of three programs](https://nadiaeghbal.com/grant-programs) by Nadia Eghbal, 2018
-   [$1m to pay open source maintainers on Tidelift](https://blog.tidelift.com/1m-to-pay-open-source-maintainers-on-tidelift) by Donald Fischer, 2018
-   [Creating a New Source of Revenue for Open Source Software](https://triplebyte.com/blog/creating-a-new-source-of-revenue-for-open-source-software) by
    Guillaume Luccisano, 2018
-   [Heart of Clojure 2019 - Daniel Compton - Building Stable Foundations](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z_q6nVeD_K4&feature=youtu.be&list=PLhYmIiHOMWoEgJEvgkmUe8D0agxy_T2vR)
-   [Altruism Still Fuels the Web. Businesses Love to Exploit It](https://www.wired.com/story/altruism-open-source-fuels-web-businesses-love-to-exploit-it/) by
    Zeynep Tufekci, 2019


## Conferences, groups, initiatives

-   <https://sustainoss.org>
-   <http://themaintainers.org>
-   <https://maintainerati.org>
-   <https://www.outreachy.org>
-   <https://www.legacycode.rocks>
-   <https://prototypefund.de>
-   <https://www.piratecare.net/posts/call-for-papers/>
-   [fundthecode.org: events to finance FLOSS projects](https://fundthecode.org)
-   <https://github.com/sponsors> (and the [FAQ](https://github.blog/2019-06-12-faq-with-the-github-sponsors-team))
-   <https://www.maintainersanonymous.com/>
-   <https://nadiaeghbal.com/microgrants>
-   [Linux Foundation Core Infrastructure Project](https://www.coreinfrastructure.org/)
-   [Help Sustain Open Source Communities](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/press-release/2019/03/the-linux-foundation-launches-new-communitybridge-platform-to-help-sustain-open-source-communities/) by the Linux Foundation


## Generalist websites

-   [oss.fund: Open Source Software Funding Platforms Registry](https://oss.fund) (discussed
    on [discourse.sustainoss.org](https://discourse.sustainoss.org/t/open-source-software-funding-platforms-registry/106))
-   [Sustainable Free and Open Source Communities](https://sfosc.org)
-   [No Maintenance Intended](http://unmaintained.tech)


# Infrastructure

-   Russell and Vinsel, "Making Maintainers: Engineering Education and
    the Ethics of Care" [preprint](http://themaintainers.org/resources).
-   [Roads and Bridges: The Unseen Labor Behind Our Digital
    Infrastructure](https://www.fordfoundation.org/about/library/reports-and-studies/roads-and-bridges-the-unseen-labor-behind-our-digital-infrastructure) by Nadia Eghbal, 2016
-   [Exploiting Developer Infrastructure Is Ridiculously Easy](https://medium.com/s/story/exploiting-developer-infrastructure-is-insanely-easy-9849937e81d4) by Jarrod
    Overson, 2018
-   [Every day, we rely on digital infrastructure built by volunteers. What happens when it fails?](https://www.fordfoundation.org/ideas/equals-change-blog/posts/every-day-we-rely-on-digital-infrastructure-built-by-volunteers-what-happens-when-it-fails/)


# Ethics and motivation

-   [Blood money is fine with us, says GitLab](https://www.theregister.co.uk/2019/10/16/gitlab_employees_gagged/), 2019
-   [6 myths about “ethical” open source licenses](https://hackernoon.com/6-myths-about-ethical-open-source-licenses-3bfbd042b1dc), 2019
-   [Why we need an Open Source Licence that considers the misuse of our code](https://hackernoon.com/why-we-need-an-open-source-licence-that-considers-the-misuse-of-our-code-8d19b65d425), 2019
-   [Major Open Source Project Revokes Access to Companies That Work with
    ICE](https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/article/8xbynx/major-open-source-project-revokes-access-to-companies-that-work-with-ice) by Daniel Oberhaus, 2018
-   <https://words.steveklabnik.com/what-comes-after-open-source> by Steve
    Klabnik, 2018
-   [Why We Engage in FLOSS: Answers from Core Developers](https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.05741)
-   [Of Money, Responsibility, and Pride](http://veridicalsystems.com/blog/of-money-responsibility-and-pride/) by Steve Marquess
-   [Why Software Projects need Heroes (Lessons Learned from 1100+ Projects)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.09954)
-   [What Core Contributors Want](https://medium.com/open-collective/what-core-contributors-want-4e7327ac9180) by Alanna Irving, 2019
-   [Why don't you accept donations?](https://github.com/gorhill/uBlock/wiki/Why-don't-you-accept-donations%3F) by Raymond Hill, 2015
-   <https://github.com/tootsuite/mastodon/issues/11129>
-   [Software Community Growth through "first-timers-only" issues](https://publiclab.org/notes/gauravano/03-29-2019/software-community-growth-through-first-timers-only-issues) by
    gauravano with warren, 2019 (also see [firsttimersonly.com](https://www.firsttimersonly.com))
-   [Finding your tribe - choosing open source communities](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qTdJgpxkrhU)


# Related essays

-   [The culture war at the heart of open source](https://words.steveklabnik.com/the-culture-war-at-the-heart-of-open-source) and [What comes after open source?](https://words.steveklabnik.com/what-comes-after-open-source)
-   [The Origins of Opera and the Future of Programming](https://the-composition.com/the-origins-of-opera-and-the-future-of-programming-bcdaf8fbe960) by Jessica Kerr, 2018
-   [The Principal Developer](https://sizovs.net/2019/02/15/the-principal-developer) by Eduards Sizovs, 2019 ([HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=19192737))
-   ['Human-Computer Insurrection' (PDF)](https://ironholds.org/resources/papers/anarchist_hci.pdf)
-   [Shop Class as Soulcraft: An Inquiry Into the Value of Work (The Penguin Press, 2009)](http://www.matthewbcrawford.com/new-page-1-1-2)
-   <https://media.libreplanet.org/u/libreplanet/m/right-to-repair-and-the-dmca/>


# Miscellaneous

-   [Recap of the \`funding\` experiment](https://feross.org/funding-experiment-recap/) by Feross Aboukhadijeh, 2019
-   [But You Said I Could](https://blog.licensezero.com/2019/08/26/but-you-said.html) by licensezero, 2019
-   <https://www.techrepublic.com/article/why-doesnt-anyone-weep-for-docker/>
-   <https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/episode-24-chat-about-redis-labs-podcast-transcript>
-   <https://armin.dev/blog/2019/08/supporting-browser-extension-developers/> (and [HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=20587440))
-   <https://discourse.sustainoss.org/t/next-steps-for-the-working-group/23> (see [ossgrants](https://erlend-sh.github.io/ossgrants/))
-   <https://twitter.com/pradyunsg/status/1146454278174756864>
-   <https://twitter.com/ceejbot/status/1135125056487485440>
-   <https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/11/magazine/letter-of-recommendation-bug-fixes-git.html>
-   <https://www.cockroachlabs.com/blog/oss-relicensing-cockroachdb/> (on [HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=20097077) and [theinformation.com](https://www.theinformation.com/articles/cockroach-labs-stands-up-to-amazons-open-source-offensive?))
-   <https://increment.com/open-source/the-rise-of-few-maintainer-projects/>
-   <https://utcc.utoronto.ca/~cks/space/blog/programming/GoIsGooglesLanguage>
-   Python request episode : on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/dhh/status/1125184022311854085), [vorpus.org](https://vorpus.org/blog/why-im-not-collaborating-with-kenneth-reitz/) and [journal.kennethreitz.org](http://journal.kennethreitz.org/entry/conspiracy)
-   <https://blog.ubuntu.com/2019/04/29/canonical-consolidates-open-infrastructure-support-and-security-offerings>
-   <https://changelog.com/podcast/233> about Webpack
-   <https://www.legacycode.rocks/podcast-1/episode/1c0e0b87/hail-the-maintainers-with-andrew-russell>
-   <https://aws.amazon.com/fr/blogs/opensource/keeping-open-source-open-open-distro-for-elasticsearch/>
-   <https://waypoint.vice.com/en_us/article/8xypb5/the-dwarf-fortress-creators-werent-in-it-for-money-but-now-they-need-it>
-   [Stepping stone history of FOSS assumptions, ethics, personalities & economics](https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/43zak3/the-internet-was-built-on-the-free-labor-of-open-source-developers-is-that-sustainable)
-   [A Seasonal Report on Developer Trends in the Cloud: Open Source Edition](https://www.digitalocean.com/currents/october-2018/)
-   Strange Loop - A Stitch in Time - The future of OSS Sustainability September 12-14 in St. Louis, Missouri, USA
